Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much, everyone, again for coming, and welcome.
Welcome, everyone, again. We are now all again together and discussing the teachings of the great
teacher,
Mother Shatyamuni, other great Masters. So I'm very, very happy and thankful for all the
good with this subconscious situation both, even though it is very difficult and hard and strange,
but yet we are doing meaningful of this situation. So I'm thankful that it's great. Thank you.
Again,
with this, again, as we, you know, and we should remember, back to our best, best of foundational
practices, remembering our beautiful motivation, so activating our motivations of the joy and
appreciation, and both each other, and then purely realization or understanding of the
s, where we are teaching, always taught and teaching. So we reflect on those. We were taught,
and then we again go to the teaching. And this time, teaching is now, I'm going to
read it again, this booklet, that you all have, this one. And now,
we've discussed about what we've been discussing. We've been discussing
about the poor renounceations or poor point that will change in the mind. That is essence, the
teaching of the great teacher, Mother Shatyamuni, first to see. Suffering truth and cause of
suffering
truth. It is a very, very essence, also is a very practical way, how to reflect in that.
Those are important, and so necessary, the teaching said, this poor point of the mind,
or the poor renounceation thought, it is so important because it will help us, our practice
goes on the right directions. And we don't have these poor points of this thought or the poor
renounceation. Many times, our practice of dharma will go according to worldly concerns,
at worldly concerns. You all know those at worldly concerns. At worldly concerns, that means we're
diluting our practice with samsara, mundane attitudes. Therefore, always those in the practice
lineages emphasize of reflecting of this poor point or poor renounceations. Again, it is the
essence of the past true, noble truth, among the poor. Suffering truth, cause of suffering truth,
is a very strong word. Once we have that understanding thought, then we follow the path.
Among the following of truth, then we follow the path truth. That's the way, path truth is the way
to get the realization of the cessation state, or truth of cessation. So that's what it really is.
So now, path truth. When you follow the path truth, then always in the Buddha teaching,
mention how important to take the raffod. And we like to pursue the teaching of the
great teaching of the Buddha khatamali. Following all those great masters and practitioners,
that's the way we should take raffod. Raffod is so important, entirely Buddha's teachings.
Teachings, particularly all the moralities, ethics are best upon raffod.
Without the raffod, there is no vows. There is no vows of Bhaskar, no vows of the uni practices,
all the uni practices, no vows of the share mandala, whether male or female, and no vows of the
monk, and all non-fully or any. And then some bodhisattva vows, mva, vediyana vows,
all that is best upon on these raffod. So therefore, we discuss about the raffod.
And in order to get the raffod, how we accept, if we don't, we need the devotions or the peds
to tell the raffod. If we don't have the devotions on the peds, how we should aspire?
Devotions on the peds is in the great master. Yimul Nambased is the most humble sleeping beauty.
Most of the time, it just stays, and the mental state is not really acting.
But we have to activate it. To activate it, I mentioned pour different. That says to activate
the devotee. These pours are not necessarily all the pour you need, but one of those.
And particularly, reading the teachings of the Buddha Shakyamuni,
leading the lives of those great masters, and then accompanying really good practice groups,
good spiritual friends, good spiritual friends of also teachers, qualified teachers.
And then, when you're reflecting pour in all certain thoughts only, then those four,
these four of them, or two of them, three of them, or one of those,
they will activate our peds. That is all turning the mind to the dharma,
trying to turn the mind to the spirituals. So that is what we need. This devotion or the peds
is not just one game of the once time, one time game. We need that continuous every day we need,
every practice, every day. Therefore, we have to inspire. This peds goes up and down for many
times to for many of us. It's kind of almost like weather. It goes up, it goes down. For that
reason,
great verse from Daki Nishi, in her prayers, "May I never have the ups and the don'ts,
no change of the devotees, stay so firm and strong as the willing and the sun in the sky."
She really said, "I'm true." This is what we all go through, ups and the don'ts.
But therefore, once the dawn's time, we have to inspire. We have to pray. We read the lives
of those great masters. Even they are so highly beloved beings, they are practicing. Even Buddha
reached enlightenment within his life time, or within that he is enlightenment. Still, he merited.
In a teaching said, or in a chakra, or Vinaya teaching, Buddha goes with monk, or monk with
audience or his disciples to the city to get the food. Once that kind of attack completed,
and returned back to his hermitage, and wipe his feet, and then merited, and practiced.
Even Buddha, these are the good examples, examples. These are also examples of our inspirations.
They are all examples. And we have to keep up. Buddha is totally enlightened beings.
There's nothing higher realization you can get than the Buddha. But even that,
Buddha is doing it. At the same time, when you, same way with the life story of the
Guru, when he came to Tibet, he's already enlightened, or not just yet, already enlightened.
He's the emanation of the Buddha Amitabha, the living Buddha Amitabha,
and the reincarnation of the Buddha Shapta Manus. But when he came to Tibet, for example,
in every sources, wherever Masambha most of the time stayed on the hermitage mountains,
in the mountains, caves. Therefore, throughout the Tibet, there are so many caves
that are blessed by the wherever Masambha, and meditating, practicing.
That's all tests. And they read the life story of all the other great masters up there. Really,
even though we have high still realization. So therefore, we, for us, for many of us,
and I'm not going to say we, but equally that, for many of us, maybe just beginner practitioners.
Therefore, we need faith. We need devotion. We need courage. We need commitment.
We may need determination. We need more relaxed, calm, and peaceful. Follow the rhythms of those
great masters. What they did there in life story, and what they taught in a book that we can read,
which is, as I said, so many now in Ignis, or in the language, different countries, their own
language.
Read those. Those are the living representatives of those great masters.
Buddha's teaching is also known as living representatives of the Buddha Shapta Manus.
So, read. And apply that. This is not what Buddha or those great masters reserved, can't
really tell, and told you, or private corners, private clubs. This is the message and teaching,
that sharing how we can do, because we all equally inherited the nature, Buddha nature.
Therefore, we have 100% responsibilities to welcome ourselves now. It is a border town, too.
According to the teaching of the British graduate teacher, Buddha Shapta Manus,
we've been so long in samsara. From the beginning, this time in the teaching,
there is no, even the country can put the numbers of years. The eons who went through this samsara
challenges. And now, if we don't make the change or stop, it will be continued, according to the
teaching of the Buddha. Because duality construction is endless, there is no ending of the negative
emotions. I don't know where it's coming. It's from somewhere coming. There is no really shortage
of negative emotions. We can read that ourselves. Even though we can trace our negative emotions,
anger, attachment, jealousness, arrogance, or those things, we cannot trace and pinpoint the
source. Yet, this is endless. When it is coming endlessly, it creates an endless dilemma,
endless chaos, endless challenge, endless dissatisfaction, endless boring and attire.
There is no end. Since, we didn't put the bread to our duality mind. Who is going to do that?
We are going to do it ourselves. Buddha is not going to do it. Buddha himself clearly said,
"I showed you the path." Or, "I showed you the path." Or, "I showed you the technique." Now is your
time. Whether
you like to apply or not apply. We have the right. What will we do? We have to do. Buddha taught us
the skills and methods. Great Master also taught all the skills and methods. And they followed with
teaching of the Buddha. They had all those big differences. They are the witness. They are the
witness. We can do. We can do. For that reason, what in the teaching said, in the Dharma Path,
Dharma Path Buddha said, "You are your protector." Who will really finally be going to protect us?
Ourself has to protect ourselves. And we don't protect ourselves. What is that? Again, in the same
line in the Dharma Path said, "You are your enemy." Now you are, can be the worst enemy to yourself
.
You can be the best protector to yourself or yourself. It's true. Many times, all these
troubles we go through, ours have to create it. We can see. How much help? All those mental
creations
have a dependence. All that we completely, kind of like, create it and then it becomes
out of control. Nobody put our Lord in those reality levels. Even though we say, "Oh, that must be,
kind of, is created by that and these things." But those may be consequence. Reality is our.
We have to bounce back ourselves. We cannot blame to someone else all the time. But that
don't really solve the problems. We have to solve the solution. We have to solve the problem.
Blame someone, talking to someone that will not solve the problem. Baby is emotional level a little
bit, but that is not the solution. And therefore, as a gracious teacher, brother said, "You are
your
protector or best protector or you are the worst your enemy." It's true. That's it. So therefore,
this, for that reason, then we follow the path. Truth. Part truth and then we follow
part truth and we take reference. And those I went quite determined. And of course, you can find
more
about this reference, the reference practices and many teachings. All such as all my perfect
teachers
or the dual ornament of the great Gumbo White teachings and all those really teachings explaining,
so following, so detailed, so that we like to know. But what I said is more condensed,
essential meanings. Once you turn now, rafu, now where we have to go? We have to now continually
follow the path. As I said the other day, taking rafu is the first steps of our in the path
to the liberation or the path truths. From that on, we begin to the beginning process of
changing samsara to the nirvana. That is what it is. So we take reference. After we take rafu,
then here, here, what this is again, in the teaching, said here, here, so then
said here. And this is now the, I think seventh line. Seventh line is and, and so if I read that
what we kind of been going to go on over this meaning, trust that the three jewels and the
imperishable source of rafu. And then, and do not be mistaking about the result of the rituals
and unrighteous actions. So that is what, but this, from this line and as well as here, this, this,
this line and next line in particular devoted to the root teacher and then love and natural faith,
love and affection for the samayam and the brothers and sisters, the bodhijata of
competing to all mother sending beings, component things are in permanent and the end and should be
regarded as inseparable in, in, in this, in, in, yeah, and unknown as forever lost wealth of the
practicing. Sorry, I'm thinking mixed up lines, component things are impermanent and, and unknown
as the poor ever lost wealth of the practitioners. Now these practices, this is this all, all these
teachings, all these lines and stockings and stockings of these lines, we have to keep all the time
.
This is not just once in a while, as in the teaching said, he said, for wealth of the
practitioners, or what, how they translated here, the unknown as the forever lost wealth of
practitioners, ever lost wealth of the practitioners. That means this wealth, we need all the time,
this, these points, or they are the wealth. They are the wealth because if you have this wealth
of the, understand these things, what is listed teaching, we are the practitioners, we are the
really very good practitioners, all very fine practitioners. Why we don't have, we are the
poor practitioners, we are not rich practitioners. So that indicating we, we like to be really
wealthy
practitioners of all the trails, or you like to be poor practitioners and always trying to apply
what was bankruptcies, bankruptcies of the practice in town. Now I don't know where you can apply
it.
At least we can use the names. So if we don't have that, we really don't have that, we have enough.
So therefore, how we can get this wealth again is not coming from outside. We are opening our own
treasure of knowledge and our own, from the mind, nature of the mind, that this we really need.
And we have that, truly we are advancing on the part. And then the sensations are coming.
Actually, sensation is, if I translated the sensation in another way,
relaxation. Relatation is not just coming only in later. Relatation is coming when we have this
wealth. When we have those wealth, it's really at the same time. It's growing, it's arising,
developing.
Therefore, this wealth, relaxation or the sensation is all the Sangha members of every part.
Part, accumulation part. Relatation was sensation of truth is also within the mind or heart of the
accumulation part. Sensation through the realization is also education, Sangha members of
education part. And the sensation, truth or the realization is heart or the mind of the
same part. And then, of course, meditation part. But the point and the best is then
have normal, starting sensation, which is the Buddha. That is the best. But otherwise,
realization comes where we are advancing on the part. The moment we advance that,
it's really coming. So therefore, if we keep this part that, that is, and this is here,
here, and do not mistakenly about the result and virtues, unvirtuous action, this teaching is,
we already discussed last week, last week or this time, we discussed about karma. This is teachings
on the karma. Cause and effectiveness are inevitable. So this teaching is teachings
on the karma. But what is really, and that, what is really cause of the non-virtuous?
Or unvirtuous? What is the cause of unvirtuous? It's again our negative emotions. Negative emotions
,
generally, which go very passively, it has to become negative emotions. Gross negative emotions
and subtle negative emotions. Gross negative emotions is such as anger, attachment, jealous.
Those are gross negative emotions. Subtle negative emotions, which is ignorance.
Ignorant is so subtle, we don't recognize. Otherwise, according to the teaching, why we get anger?
Because of ignorance. Why we get jealous? Because of ignorance. Why we get attachment?
Or greedy? Because of ignorance. But ignorance is subtle. It's hidden.
Ignorant is saturated to all these negative emotions.
Behind this, so it is the vital in a way. Ignorant is vital, keeping all those active.
And then of course, ignorance is the vital cause of ego cleanings. But that all hidden in a way.
So therefore, some of the teaching mentions gross and subtle emotions.
So that these negative emotions are, when it comes to the activity. As I said the other day,
and of course you all know, it is known as unvirtuous. It started with the unvirtuous
intention. It reacted, reacted, unwholesome for disturbances. Disturbance to one's own self,
and disturbance to the others. And one in the credit, the result is unpleasant. Sad, suffering,
scaring, depression. All those we name really come. These are not just again stories of mythology
telling that. We all experience ourself. We are in the dead of those emotions. Our mind becomes
restless.
We are not subtle. Even we cannot sleep. Those happen. Difficult sleep. So that means it disturbed
all the system of the body too. Brain, body, channel, energy. Everything disturbed.
Within it is disturbing others the same way. And that is known as unvirtuous. That started from,
again, from the mind. Mind of emptiness. It started. And therefore, what in our way of teaching
said, even though they are so disturbances, so kind of like obstacle, and I can't resist possible,
it's terrible. But yet, all this negative, ah, the nature of empty nature. Oh, it's not empty.
There's no solid existence of any negative emotions. It's all empty as everything.
Everything. That means no substantially solid entities of this negative emotions.
That's what the Buddha said. That's what all these great masters said. And that is something.
When we read this teaching, when we read the book, when we ask our own self, we witness, we prove.
That is realization. When we got that intellectually realization, that means we are something of
cessation meaning. All the realization is true. There's no substantial existence.
And then same way. Where is this? The virtues come from. Again, same source. There's no different
compartment of the mind. All this side is virtues coming. This side is coming with the unvirtuous.
Maybe on the channel, the nervous system level in the brain, modern scientists, they'll say,
"Oh, but reality is from mind." A court of Buddhism. All come from the mind. But there's no
different
compartments of the mind. This is the virtuous side of the mind. This is the unvirtuous side
of the mind. We never pound the mind. How we can say this side, that side. It's true. No one yet
found the mind, even the modern scientists. Those high sophisticated, cutting machinery
technology in the laboratories. Never found. Buddha never found. Nagarjuna never found.
Murugama Sambha never found. They don't have the machinery external, but they have the most
highest sophisticated, the intelligence of the power of the mind. Mind. According to the Buddha's
teaching, the power of the mind is much more stronger than the material and the substations.
Much more strong. Much more sophisticated. A trillion times more powerful than the machinery,
things highest. And on that machinery of the enlightened mind, never found.
So, therefore, there's no different compartment. But yet, it's arising the virtuous mind. What are
those? Those are the loving kindness, compassion, and then non-detectments. Those are all non-det
ectments.
Those are all coming. We need calm in our mind. What it creates in our mind, in our brain? Calm,
peace. More calm and satisfying. Relax. And that, with that energy or that mind reflected to the
external, it created same thing to the others. Bring calm, peace, joy, happiness. All that what we
wanted, what we like to, it really brings that to everyone. And also recognized by that everyone.
There's no need for interpretations of the loving kindness and compassion.
Joy and appreciators. Even the animals recognize it. That is powerful truth
of this way things are. So, that is a mystery. So, this is what He kept you doing. You said,
hold on that. Hold on that. Don't mistake. Do that. And this time, this is also teaching
medias on the, again, as I said the other day, and you all know, when we practices, there is
two periods. Post meditation and meditation periods. Practice time and not practice, or that
means not meditating, sitting on the cushion and sitting on the chair or whatever, not cooking that
.
So, we are engaged outside. This is also instructions of the, in during post meditation too.
We should always thoughtful. Thoughtful. During the meditation or the practice,
suppose we are engaged in completely our self. Minds are completely in the, on the most positive,
which is mind. But during the post meditation, we are interacting with the world. There's many
things
can happen. That time, then we have to be also keep up our identity, our principles.
Principles. So, that is a little instructive of this. In order to do that, what integrate Master
Gungjima said in his teachings, and that which is not just only in Gungjima, and then everyone
really
after Gungjima highlighted that. Three principle noblities, if I translate that way. Many of you
know already that. On that. But again, I'm going to repeat that. Three principle noblities.
Sometimes I translate this what I'm talking about, going from nobility or noble. I translate it
good.
Three principle books. Sometimes I translate it virtues. But this I'm going to use the same
meaning in the novel ladies. I don't know what that gradually goes on. But I'm going to use that.
Novelty. Three principle novel ladies. And what in the teaching said intubate, if I kind of try
to say that intubate, so then maybe it's a little bit co-accurate. Sometimes I translate it to be
the
word in my brain and try to utter that. And then sometimes it comes a little bit okay, and
sometimes
not okay. So, now I will say that first intubate, and then I will translate at least that.
And if I translate that, first principle of the first novel lady is motivation.
Motivation or the foundation of the preparation. The first principle of the novel lady is
motivation. So that is the first. And the second is
and the principle, the principle, principle second or second principle novelty is, is
meditation with no grasping. Meditation with no grasping. So that is second or the principle.
Middle. And the third is yo moa tamba. Yo moa tamba. And principle is
sealing up the practice with dedication and aspirations. These are, these three are,
what great master Dung Kim says, they are so precious for all the practitioners
that would really like to get realization. These three are the crucial. These three are so
important.
So that way, the fourth one is motivation. Motivation, I always highlight in the three
quiz. Joy and appreciation, and both each other. And then ready and realization, all the both each
other. And that also includes joy and appreciation and taking a ruffle and both each other. These
three are, or that is the beginning principle or the first novel lady of the principles.
That is what really the first one. So we should. And then I'm going to talk about this,
this, as well as connecting to this, this teaching, this teaching of jap ji dun yul moo ji, I will
go
over those slowly by the, slowly and next time. So that is my talk for today. And thank you very
much for again for coming and participating. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Thank you everyone.
Thank you. And then I think maybe this is still now too. Next three days, we won't have the session
.
Session. And so this is Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, we will not have the session.
Session, up in the sessions. We won't have up in the sessions. And also that during that three days
,
and we are going to have in the kind of, we change our technologies, technology, the internet,
we're going to have really positive, positive and positive internet and private object,
and internet. So then maybe we can zoom betterly each of us in the next week. So that time,
then I see you. And under that really, I wish you all have good health and take care of yourself.
Thank you very much for participating. And then again, we continually and keep your practices,
keep your also another good activities. And this is our this week, we are retreat, but we are in
what called very soft retreat, or semi retreat status, which is wonderful. We can also let
activate our kind of those practice, the teaching that we did zero involvement with is it so many
years, so many times, we didn't really have time to my put in the practice, I just maybe sometimes,
one week, 10 days, or one week, or two weeks, or one month or something like that, but not too much
.
But this time, really, we can spend a little more time to act with it. And this practice is really
wonderful, wonderful. And then also with a good heart and a good mind, dedicated those merit for
all different reasons to all these situations, circumstances, and that is then bodhicitta practice
tree, very special bodhicitta practice, and that which is why actualizing bodhicitta practices.
And thank you very much again. Thank you. And now again, we do short meditation,
and then we do the healing practices, with the compassion or with the body, gentlemen.